---
date: 2024-07-10
slug: b10-07-2024-9
title: Mid-July Project Updates
---

Hey, okay, it's been a few days since I made my last blog post(the 5th of July), so this is sort of an update of what I'm working on right now I suppose. It feels good to have this blog though, I definitely don't regret making it, and it was fun to make(when it started to work at least 😳😅), and I'm still partially working on it, tweaking it and stuff to optimise it.

I've also been working on a "metrics tracker", which is sort of a useful development tool that does/will allow me to see core analytics and statistics about the project that I want. The database system I'm using has a feature similar to this, but it's obviously extremely technical and has so much data and information crammed onto the page(as it should be ofc), that it's kind of distracting and is obviously hardly usable on mobile so I can't use it on my phone or anything.

I'd argue that metrics and analytics are one of the funest parts of the project, as it's sort of a way of distilling(in the cloest way you can) all the complex abstract information and actions around it, into single numbers which is quite a satisfying process. So yeah, I've got it semi-working the way it is, I just need to set up some more triggers and database routines to make sure everything goes smoothly and it's all interconnected properly, so will sustain itself when I stop working on it, so that's going ok.

As for the core projet I'm working on at the moment: the habit tracker, that's going good as well, I'm still just figuring out how to get the new table system that I want workign properly, it just seems to be very complex, probably as it needs to be to function correctly and it's just very very different the the default HTML table system so that's just taking some time to accumulate in my head. I don't know, I feel like I have this strange thing in my head where it takes longer to learn new things, than to do other things, I'll explain -

It's like when I'm working on something that I know about or have done similar things before, I can ususally just work on it for as much time as I want, like for literally 14 hours straight before I need to sleep, but when a task requires new learning, it seems it always takes longer, because I need to like have these sort of breaks from the actualy "learning" part, where I'm reading stuff, and trying to implement it. These breaks sort of, feel like I'm procesing stuff and like my brains sort of internalising it kind of which is intersting, because it's definitely a very different process to just standard working on a problem I know about.

It's just annoying how long it takes compared to other things, but that's probably for a good reason and when I try and do stuff without having let that process undergo, it's like idk, I'm sort of going in blind to something and just don't feel comfortable at all, and it just feels weird, like I should be taking more time so that I can actually absorb and encode all the information into my brain, so in the future I can access that information accurately and quickly, allowing it to actually be useful, so yeah, that's a thing.

That's basically where I'm at when it comes to the main project, and I am making good steady progress, it's just that the table has always been the single hardest part of the project, which makes sense, because in a way, it *is* the project, it's the part that people will probably use most and spend all their time looking at so yeah... what I'm doing at the moment, is just adapting examples from documentation to fit the needs of the project and getting it all to work smoothly, trying to slide all the external stuff back into the core codebase.

Yeah so a bit more time for that, and there are other goals on the most recent patch-notes entry as well like the calendar which I will do after basically, or in parallel with as much time/energy as I have left from the table.

So TL;DR Things are all going Okay👌, just cranking out the work atm since last blog post, and through to the next post I will make after this one, pacing myself out to the mainline channel of early 2000's german industrial synth-pop from my speakers straight into my soul.

